# 4C (Context, Card, Conversation, and Confirmation)

## Definition

### Card

An index card or a note that represents the user story. The card includes just enough text to capture the essence of the story.

> Connextra format: *As a `<role>` I want `<action>` so that `<value>`*.

### Conversation

Discusstions among stakeholders to refine the definition of the story and usually in a verbal way.

### Confirmation

Acceptance criteria are requirements from the system's perspective and will be used to demonstrate that the story has been implemented correctly. Acceptance criteria are often expressed using the **Gherkin Notation**:

> *Given `<context>`, when `<condition>` then `<outcome>`*.

### Context

The user story context is defined by:

- The name of the larger feature that encompasses the story.
- A meaningful name for the story summarizing the covered behavior.
- A Concrete and validated design artifact from which the story can be derived (if applicable). The design artifact visually represents a concrete idea for the solution.

While **Confirmation** is about *verification*, **Context** is about *validation*. **Verification** ensures that the **implementation satisfies the requiremens**. **Validation** ensures that the **solution satisfies the stakeholders' needs**. The validation process starts as soon as solution ideas are proposed and before spending time on user story specification and implementation.

## INVEST Criteria and Additional Criteria

- **Independent**: The story can be implemented independently of other stories.
- **Negotiable**: the story is not a fixed commitment, but a negotiable intent.
- **Valuable**: The story delivers value to stakeholders.
- **Estimable**: The story has low uncertainty and a sizable difficulty.
- **Small**: The sotry can be completed within a few hours.
- **Testable**: The story can help derive acceptance tests.
- **Contextualized**: The story is situated in its broader context via a concrete design artifact. It is straightforward to understand the story relationships with its encompassing feature and surrounding stories.
- **Understandable**: The behavior covered by the story is easy to understand by stakeholders, especially by developers in charge of implementaion.
- **Validated**: Stakeholders have validated that the story supports the development of a feature satisfying their needs:
  - From user perspective:
    - useful
    - usable
    - delightful
  - From business perspective:
    - competitive
  - From technical perspective:
    - feasible

## 4C Structure

- **Context**:
  - Name
  - Story Name
  - Design Artifact
- **Card**: *AS A `<role>` I WANT `<action>` SO THAT `<value>`*.
- **Acceptance criterion**: GIVEN `<>` WHEN `<>` THEN `<>` AND `<>`.
